---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: The only logical choice is to out-fuck the fuckers who are trying to fuck you.
datePublished: '2015-11-02T12:43:44.131Z'
dateModified: '2015-11-02T12:43:24.457Z'
title: I am. I do.
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-11-02-i-am-i-do.md
published: true
url: i-am-i-do/index.html
_type: Article

---
So the plan was that I'd write a bunch of shit every day this month. The counsellor the court is making me see reckons it will help me although I can't imagine how. I guess I'm supposed to have some sort of breakthrough as a result of the discipline and the process. Maybe I'm just meant to write for so long that I run out of things to say and have some kind of penetrating insight as I'm struggling for words. Fucked if I know.

What I do know is that they (and I) didn't expect that I'd fucking forget about it completely on the first fucking day. But hey, this is the world we live in now and all that's left for us is to make the best of it. So fuck it, I guess I'm pulling double duty.

The goal is about 1500 words a day because why not have an arbitrary goal? Arbitrary goals are as logical as most others and I can spew drivel as well as the next drooling pumpkin-spiced genius.

I guess the hope is that over the course of the next few weeks I'll pull together some sort of bigger narrative and tell you all about where I came from and I think I think I got here, but I have my doubts. Realistically what's going to happen is I'll ramble with all kinds of weird thoughts and bullshit. Some of it might make sense, and some of it may even relate to other things in the collected body of works but most of it will just be.

I was on the train home today and there was this nice old lady who got on a few stops after me. She had a couple of shopping bags with her and as she got on, someone who had snagged a seat got up so she could sit down. A nice moment of humanity in this godsforsaken city. Anyway, I get to my stop and I'm doing my usual thing of listening to music with my fuck-off headphones on because a) I'm not interested in hearing your bullshit, and b) I'm not fucking interested your fucking bullshit and you can leave me the fuck alone, ok?

I'm moving to the door to disembark when I realise this nice old lady is getting off too. I pause for a second to let her move in front of me and she smiles and then gestures, asking me to take one of her bags for her. Normally reason b) would really kick in at this point. Like if some random dude starts talking to me or whatever and I'd get angry and life would get a little unpredictable from that point forward.

But this isn't some rando dude, it's a nice old lady, so I nod yes and pick up her bag and follow her off the train. We get off the main platform and she just starts up the stairs to get out of there, so I follow her. I mean, I needed to leave the station so it's no big deal and of course if she needs help off the train, it makes sense that she'd need help up the stairs. When we get to the top of the stairs I go to give her the bag and she asks me to walk her to the bus stop. Without even thinking about it, I say 'Of course.' and just casually walk her to the bus stop nbd.

It was only after I'd told her to have 'a lovely weekend' and started walking home that I realised how much it hadn't annoyed me at all to do something helpful for someone even though they'd interrupted my day.

Now that's the sort of shit that I bet is going to make the counsellor get all excited and brain-horny when she reads it. 'What do you think it means?' she'll say. Or something equally boring. She'll ruin it by trying to draw some big meaning out of it. Some teachable fucking moment. Some insight. Some manufactured wisdom.

As if the world needs any more of that. Can't it just be enough that for one brief moment on one particular day the random moving parts of this corner of a bleakly uncaring universe came together to give a tiny piece of respite to a lady who needed it?

Does it have to provide some lightbulb moment too?

I don't need deep insights. I am. I do. That's surely enough? Yeah, the world's bigger than that, we live in a society, blah, blah, fuckity blah. That's part of the doing isn't it? Where's the value in second-guessing myself at every turn? Where's the evolutionary advantage in being crippled by doubt?

My uncle's army unit has a saying, 'Fortune favours the bold' - of course it's bullshit, there's no such thing as fortune, but I'll take it. I'll be bold and I'll take my chances. The odds are never in your favour anyway and you can only control so much. A tiny, tiny, tiny so much as it turns out.

So when there's little to control, don't sacrifice control. Don't give up yourself, don't give up your agency and your choices. Don't give up a godsdamn thing. Don't let any fucking self-important person, or court, talk you into questioning your every thought and action. Let them question themselves if it gets them off. 

Trust me, nobody really wants me asking those kinds of questions. None of us will like the answers.

Oh sweet baby fuck, I hate this already. How fucking self-indulgent and self-righteous am I? I hope you're as nauseated by this shit right now as I am. If not, there's something fucking wrong with you. Like seriously fucking wrong. But that's your shit to solve, not mine.

The weather's getting hot now. We're heading into summer properly now and it's going to be a hot one this year. We've already had the hottest spring ever recorded. And still the politicians haggle and argue over how best to pretend there's nothing wrong. Even as their island nation neighbours point to the rising waterlines, the shrinking land masses and the extreme weather events that happen more frequently and are more destructive than ever.

Should we even call them politicians anymore? I mean, that lends strength to the lie that they're there to serve the people. That stopped being true a long time ago and it stopped being a secret when they ruled that corporations are people. They don't serve the people, they're just lobbyists for their corporate masters.

It's funny in a way. All the tv shows and movies filled with conspiratorial drama about shadow governments trying to run the world. The truth is much more frightening than that. The world's actual governments are being run in the open by greedy old men and they don't fucking care. That's the joke. They don't care.

They'll sell you and me and everyone else into annihilation as long as they get the next dollar. Hell, half the time they're not even aware. They're just doing their jobs. It's their fiduciary responsibility to return value to the shareholders. It's not their fault but they're legally and ethically, and fuck it, morally obliged to fuck you over in order to make that extra buck for the owners.

So fuck you it is and that's just how it is. There's no future. Well not for us. Don't worry about them though. Up there at the top of the tree, they'll be fine. They've got their exit strategies worked out. The giant, luxurious bunkers or the private islands. Fuck, is it any surprise that it takes a billionaire to get serious about launching people out to Mars? Anyone want to guess who's going to choose the people who get to go? Want to bet that it's not going to include many of those of us at the bottom of the tree?

I mean, sure, they'll have a lottery or something and a few can come. Even on Mars the rich don't like to scrub their own toilets. But for most of us, the shanty-town horror of a crumbling world will be the best we can hope for.

And when that's the future they're carving out for us all, is it really all that insane to become the meanest, most cutthroat, baddest motherfucker you can? Only an idiot or a saint would just hopelessly give up and try to do good by others as our home ecosystem sinks into a mass extinction event.

For the rest of us, those of us who can really, truly see it for what it is, the only logical choice is to out-fuck all the fuckers trying to fuck us.

Get mine while the getting's good and gut yours along the way.

It's logic. It's instinct. It's survival. I am. I do.